# Breast-Cancer-detection-using-SVM-in-Matlab
Thermography is a type of imaging that is accomplished with an IR camera calibrated to display temperature values across an object or scene. Thermography allows one to make non-contact measurements of an object’s temperature.  

The thermogram images from the database are taken as the input images. These images are composed of the original images , images with monotonic gray-level transformations and rotated images in order to prove the invariance to linear or nonlinear transformations like contrast enhancement ,gamma correction and histogram equalisation and to 90ᵒ  rotations of the proposed approach.

Ranklet decomposition involves constructing a Ranklet coefficient matrix using Wilcoxon statistics which is used to find the relative rank of pixels in the desired window. The window refers to the resolution that is selected (2, 4, 8, etc.). The resolution would determine the number of crops (overlapping sub images) that contain pixels used to compute a single ranklet coefficient from the given image. Another important factor while finding the rank is the orientation (horizontal, vertical and diagonal). Hence for a given image with the ROI a number of ranklet images are formed the number being given by N=R*O where R is the number of resolutions chosen and O is the orientations. Ranklet transform provides robustness to linear or nonlinear monotonic gray-level transformations.

Using the ranklet images, the ranklet histogram and ranklet co-occurrence matrices are constructed. These are substituted into equations to find the features such as mean convergence, code variance, uniformity, first order /second order element difference moment , first order /second order inverse element difference moment and energy distribution of ranklet co-occurrence matrix. The features thus obtained are concatenated into a feature vector. Rotation invariance is brought about by averaging the features formed with the three orientations for each resolution. The feature vectors are subjected to the SVM classifier that distinguishes two classes namely normal image and tumour image. The feature vectors used during training phase are not used for the testing phase. This would ensure the efficient performance of the classifier for new input images that were not originally used.
